Most things we want to measure, for example, temperature or pressure, are
continuously varying. The sensor data must be converted to a digital format
before it can be interpreted by a microprocessor.

Applying power to a sensor so that it produces a usable output is called
excitation. Analog circuitry excites filters and amplifies the raw sensor
signal, a process called signal conditioning. Once processed in this way, the
signal is sent to an ADC, short for analog-to-digital converter. The output of
the ADC is typically 8, 12, 16, or 24 bits. Data from an ADC is usually
converted to a serial format, such as I2C, SPI or RS-232.

Certain sensors, humidity in particular, incorporate the analog front end on a
single chip solution, producing a digital output easily connected to a
microprocessor.

The raw output of most sensors is easily corrupted, hence, signal conditioning
circuitry is located very close to the sensor, helping to shield against
external interference. Once converted, the digital signal can easily be
transmitted over great distances with minimal error.

It is helpful to use a microcontroller for sensor systems. This device consists
of a microprocessor with a built-in analog-to-digital converter. In this course,
you'll be using the Cypress PSoC series of microcontrollers. This
microcontroller also contains amplifiers, multiplexers, comparators, timers,
counters, and shift registers. It minimizes the number of discrete components
between the sensor and the microcontroller. It is a hardware programmable
part. You design electronic circuits implemented as real hardware inside the
PSoC chip. The hardware then interacts with the code you write in a seamless
manner. The design environment for this part is called PSoC creator, and
includes schematic capture in addition to a code editor.

In addition, a handful of inexpensive sensors and actuators will be made
available for you to purchase for this course, and future ones that are part of
the specializations.

Normally, you would need an expensive bench-top digital oscilloscope to take
sensor readings, such as this one from Agilent. You may use this type of scope
if you have access to one at work or school. However, for this class, you may
also purchase a much lower cost oscilloscope, that you can connect to your
laptop PC. We give you some suggestions of devices to purchase in the course
syllabus. We hope you share our enthusiasm for building things. It's the best
way to learn.
